docs/documentation/contribute.md, before:

{{ top_buttons() }}

# How to contribute?

**Hi there!** :wave: :blush:

RiverBench is an open, [community-driven](maintainers.md) project, so you are more than welcome to contribute. This page explains how to do it.

## Reporting benchmark results

If you have run a benchmark using RiverBench's datasets or tasks, **we highly encourage you to [share your results](reporting-results.md)**. After filling out a simple form, your benchmark run will be [listed on the RiverBench website](../results/index.md) (along with proper citation, of course) in a machine- and human-readable format. See our dedicated brief guide on **[reporting benchmark results](reporting-results.md)** for more details.

<div style="text-align: center" markdown>[:material-star-plus: Report your benchmark results](reporting-results.md){ .md-button }</div>

## Contributing datasets

Do you have an interesting RDF dataset that would make a good addition to RiverBench? Great!

Have a look at the **[dedicated guide on creating new datasets](creating-new-dataset.md)** which also explains the requirements for new datasets. If you still have questions, don't hesitate to contact RiverBench's maintainers by [opening an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/RiverBench/RiverBench/issues/new/choose).

<div style="text-align: center" markdown>[:material-database-plus: Propose a new dataset](creating-new-dataset.md){ .md-button }</div>

## Contributing benchmark tasks

Do you want to share your benchmarking procedure with the world? Publishing it in RiverBench will give your task a permanent URI and make it easy to reference in papers and other publications. Others will also have the chance to contribute their results and notes about conducting the benchmark.

<div style="text-align: center" markdown>[:material-invoice-text-plus: Propose a new benchmark task](creating-new-task.md){ .md-button }</div>

## Reporting issues

Found a bug in a dataset or the metadata? Or in something else entirely? Feel free to [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/RiverBench/RiverBench/issues/new/choose). Please try to be as specific as possible on your issue, so that it can be resolved quickly.

## Improving the documentation

You can easily edit the documentation on this website – see the [dedicated guide](editing-docs.md) for more details.

## Improving the code or metadata

Have a look at our [GitHub organization page](https://github.com/RiverBench) and the repositories there. Some important ones are:

- [RiverBench](https://github.com/RiverBench/RiverBench) – the main repository
- [riverbench.github.io](https://github.com/RiverBench/riverbench.github.io) – the repository for the website
- [schema](https://github.com/RiverBench/schema) – schemas and ontologies
- [ci-worker](https://github.com/RiverBench/ci-worker) – source for the application that packages datasets, munges metadata, and generates documentation (Scala)
- [ci-workflows](https://github.com/RiverBench/ci-workflows) – GitHub Actions workflows for the CI
- [dataset-template](https://github.com/RiverBench/dataset-template) – template repository for new datasets

You are welcome to submit any pull requests to these repositories. If you are unsure where to submit your changes, feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/RiverBench/RiverBench/issues/new/choose) and ask.

## Deeper changes

Do you see a glaring issue with the way RiverBench is organized? Or maybe you have a great idea for a new feature? You can either [open an issue](https://github.com/RiverBench/RiverBench/issues/new/choose) or contact the maintainers directly: [RiverBench maintainers](maintainers.md).

## See also

- [Using RiverBench – quick start guide](using.md)
- [RiverBench maintainers](maintainers.md)

Commit message:

Add link to the Discord community server (#13)

docs/documentation/contribute.md, after:

{{ top_buttons() }}

# How to contribute?

**Hi there!** :wave: :blush:

RiverBench is an open, [community-driven](maintainers.md) project, so you are more than welcome to contribute. This page explains how to do it.

## Chat with the community

If you have any questions or want to discuss your ideas, feel free to join our **[Discord chat](https://discord.gg/HYkutTWsJ9)**.

## Reporting benchmark results

If you have run a benchmark using RiverBench's datasets or tasks, **we highly encourage you to [share your results](reporting-results.md)**. After filling out a simple form, your benchmark run will be [listed on the RiverBench website](../results/index.md) (along with proper citation, of course) in a machine- and human-readable format. See our dedicated brief guide on **[reporting benchmark results](reporting-results.md)** for more details.

<div style="text-align: center" markdown>[:material-star-plus: Report your benchmark results](reporting-results.md){ .md-button }</div>

## Contributing datasets

Do you have an interesting RDF dataset that would make a good addition to RiverBench? Great!

Have a look at the **[dedicated guide on creating new datasets](creating-new-dataset.md)** which also explains the requirements for new datasets. If you still have questions, don't hesitate to contact RiverBench's maintainers by [opening an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/RiverBench/RiverBench/issues/new/choose).

<div style="text-align: center" markdown>[:material-database-plus: Propose a new dataset](creating-new-dataset.md){ .md-button }</div>

## Contributing benchmark tasks

Do you want to share your benchmarking procedure with the world? Publishing it in RiverBench will give your task a permanent URI and make it easy to reference in papers and other publications. Others will also have the chance to contribute their results and notes about conducting the benchmark.

<div style="text-align: center" markdown>[:material-invoice-text-plus: Propose a new benchmark task](creating-new-task.md){ .md-button }</div>

## Reporting issues

Found a bug in a dataset or the metadata? Or in something else entirely? Feel free to [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/RiverBench/RiverBench/issues/new/choose). Please try to be as specific as possible on your issue, so that it can be resolved quickly.

## Improving the documentation

You can easily edit the documentation on this website – see the [dedicated guide](editing-docs.md) for more details.

## Improving the code or metadata

Have a look at our [GitHub organization page](https://github.com/RiverBench) and the repositories there. Some important ones are:

- [RiverBench](https://github.com/RiverBench/RiverBench) – the main repository
- [riverbench.github.io](https://github.com/RiverBench/riverbench.github.io) – the repository for the website
- [schema](https://github.com/RiverBench/schema) – schemas and ontologies
- [ci-worker](https://github.com/RiverBench/ci-worker) – source for the application that packages datasets, munges metadata, and generates documentation (Scala)
- [ci-workflows](https://github.com/RiverBench/ci-workflows) – GitHub Actions workflows for the CI
- [dataset-template](https://github.com/RiverBench/dataset-template) – template repository for new datasets

You are welcome to submit any pull requests to these repositories. If you are unsure where to submit your changes, feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/RiverBench/RiverBench/issues/new/choose) and ask.

## Deeper changes

Do you see a glaring issue with the way RiverBench is organized? Or maybe you have a great idea for a new feature? You can either [open an issue](https://github.com/RiverBench/RiverBench/issues/new/choose) or contact the maintainers directly: [RiverBench maintainers](maintainers.md).

## See also

- [Using RiverBench – quick start guide](using.md)
- [RiverBench maintainers](maintainers.md)
